Hello and welcome back.
We have been talking so much about active
contours during this week as one of the
examples of the use of partial
differential equations in image
processing that I want to conclude the
week with a bit more of details now that
we know all the background material that
we need.
We know curve evolution, level sets,
calculus of variations,
differentia; geometry.
We have all those concepts that we
learned this week.
Let's put them together in one of the
active contours type of techniques.
So, let's just discuss that a bit more.
We normally talk first about edge
detection.
Now, edge detection, basically only talks
about local churches.
So it's basically giving us places where
there's a big change in the image.
And, because sometimes we compute edges
with radiant, for example, computing the
radiant of the image.
Then at every location we might have the
strength of the edge, which is the
absolute value of these or the magnitude
of these.
We might have the basic direction of the
edges.
Remember that the normal to the level
sets is in this direction.
So basically if we have an object.
This is the level line, and then the
gradient is perpendicular to it, so we
also get the direction of the edges which
are in this direction.
So we get a lot of information, but all
that information is local.
As we see in this picture.
The goal of active counters as well as
other techniques for example, was also
the goal of graph guides, is to integrate
those local measurements.
If we look at this picture for example.
That we see local representation of
edges.
There are some basically spread around
edges, but if we look carefully, it looks
like there is an object here and probably
another object here.
So there is some relationship between the
local edges and that's what active
counters is going to try, try to capture.
Let's just see that.
That's what we want to do.
We, I want to run that again.
We basically want to integrate this local
measurements of image changes.
And that's what active converse does,
exactly in the way I just showed it.
It's just curves that move with the
equations that we have seen and we are
going to discuss again, curves that move
towards those local edges.
So, active converse basically starts from
an image.
The first thing you do is you have to
compute edges.
You have to do these local computations.
There's a lot of art in how to compute
those edges.
But that's always the first step.
So you end up with an image that has,
kind of, information about the local
characteristics of the image, and often,
when we talk about active contours, we
talk about this function.
So we smooth a bit the image, and that,
we know, by this time, we're in the sixth
week, we know images are noisy.
And very often we have to just clean the
noise a bit.
We take the gradients as indicator of the
local edges, this is just to make sure
that we don't divide by zero.
So we basically take one over a
regularized gradient or one over the
gradients of our regularized image.
And that gives us count on indicator
function of where should edges be.
If there are, if there are edges, this is
very high so one over is very small.
Once we have that, then the active
contours have to go and integrate that.
Now, where is the active contours
equations that I showed you before and
I'm going to show you again coming from.
One of the things is that, what is a
curve?
What is an ice curve?
An ice curve is a curve that goes around
areas where this image that is basically
this one is very low.
Remember, once again, gradients very
high, one other gradients very small.
So I want to find curves.
That travel around regions that this
image is very small and this is
represented here.
I basically am integrating over the image
G and I want that integral to be very
small.
That will be my curve for the active
contour.
So, this is a function of g.
And I'm looking for the curve that
minimizes that function.
We know what, how to do that.
That's calculus of variations.
We're looking for a curve.
That's a function that minimizes this.
So, we plug.
G in here and we do calculus of
variations and we get an equation for the
active contours.
That's basically whole trick.
So, once again, we do the local edge
indicator.
We are looking for curves that are what
are called curves of minimal effort or
shortest path in this space.
We do calculus of variation.
And we get the curve deformation that
moves the curve towards the minima of
this function.
Again, sometimes, just a local minima.
We move it towards the minima of that
function.
And those are curves that are traveling
around low values of g.
Which means, traveling around edges.
And that's basically how we get the
equation for active contours.
Let's see that equation again.
Before that I want to show you just one
example, think it's a nice example in
ultrasound.
Those green curves are original curves
and they deform, according to the
equation that we obtained from the
Euler-Lagrange, towards the red curve.
The red curve is sitting in a place where
if I integrate, if I sum G.
All around these is low certainly much
lower than the initial one.
And that's what the calculus of
variations gave me that deformation.
So let's talk about this function g.
The function g, I'm going to just draw
some graphs here, is basically, this is
an image.
It's a very simple binary image.
These are the edges of the image.
Let's look at a profile.
This is almost binary.
It looks in the screen as binary.
The profile, when I travel here, it goes
up and down.
So it's about this.
Now when you compute edges in this image,
you are going to get basically high
values around these regions.
And then if you do this, those are going
to be low values, and we know that.
Remember, and we're going to see the
equation again.
Remember first of all we want to travel
in regions of low G, because the, we're,
we're doing the integral of G.
So we want to go around regions with low
G, as we see here.
That's one thing and, remember, we want
this G to be very small because we want
the curve, when it's evolving, to stop at
the boundaries.
We don't want it to continue evolving.
So that's one very important concept and
that's what we get from taking this G
function, this potential function, to be
a function of the gradient and inverse
function of the gradient.
Now, when we do the Euler, the, basically
the Euler-Lagrange of the calculus of
variations of this.
We got this equation.
That we see here.
This is equation that I show you a number
of times to be basically the equation of
the calculus of variation.
So this equation.
That is minimizing.
This is that.
Curve evolution.
The curve is evolving.
We have seen this a number of times
already.
And of course, this is implemented with
the level set, and I showed you in one of
the previous videos, at the end, a slide
with this equation in the level set's
framework with an implicit function fit.
So, this is the equation that is
basically the gradient descent or the
equation that basically minimizes this,
which is also called a Geodesic curve.
It's a curve of minimal weight and
they're also sometimes called Geodesic
curves.
Now we already saw in the previous slide
this function, and this is the function
that gives us basically this, what we see
here.
Now it comes out from the minimization of
these also, these term.
What these term is doing, look, there's a
gradient.
Of the potential function, not a gradient
of the image, a gradient of the potential
function.
And those are represented here by these
green lines.
So it's not only that G gets very close
to zero, and is going to try to stop the
evolution.
Remember, if we don't have G, this is
curvature motion and it shrinks it to a
point.
This would try to stop the evolution but
if we don't have an ideal age, this will
never be zero.
Then it will slow down but it won't stop.
It will come here and it will kind of
move because G is not zero yet.
It will maybe just move around or maybe
even jump over, if G is not, not really,
really a very low and the curvature wins.
So, this other term, that once again
comes natural from the calculus of
variations, is.
Basically pushing the curve.
Towards the gradient of G, this green
arrow.
So it's saying, okay, but I'm going to
trap you.
Because I have this term that is not
going to let you go away.
So this is kind of an extra velocity.
And once again this part is because,
remember, when we have velocities that
are not perpendicular to the curve, all
what we care is that perpendicular are
the normal component, and this is what
this operation does.
It projects it to the normal component.
So we have a stopping term that says.
Come to me, come very smoothly to me
because you have curvature here.
Now we know that curvature motion
smoothes the curve, stop when you get
close to edges or at least slow down and
this time traps you is pushing you
because is at gradient of this function
so is pushing you so you get stuck there.
So that's basically what the active
contours or in particular the geodesic
active contours.
Sometimes they are also called the
geometric active contours because it has
this curvature and a lot of geometric
components of the curve.
This is what these geodesic active
contours are doing, are minimizing this
energy, this geodesic energy, are trying
to find curves of minimal distance,
minimal weighted distance with waves G.
And they do that by doing calculus of
variations getting to this curve
evolution.
And implemented in, in the level size
frame work.
So everything together that we have
learned during this week is in this
Geodesic Active Contours.
Now that was just an example basically in
1D, what happens in 2D is basically the
same.
It was an illustration in 1D, and what
happens here is we take the image, we
smooth, you compute edges.
Let me just show you that again.
You compute edges,
local edges based on this function and
then you basically evolve a curve, you
can start from a curve for example that
surrounds the object, you just do some
initial condition.
You can start with multiple curves,
remember we implement this with levis
sense, we don't care about topology.
So you can start with multiple curves or
you can start with a curve around curves
inside.
Just let them evolve and when they
evolve, boom. They get into the
integration and if you sit at and I'm
going to just show you that once again.
The initial curve has much more energy.
So if I go and integrate.
G.
For the initial curve.
It's much larger than if I integrate G
for the curve that we obtain at the end
of the process, and that's a goal of
this.
Curve evolution, once again, implemented
in the level sets framework.
So this Geodesic active contours are used
a lot.
This is another interesting example.
I'm going to run it a couple of times.
That we start basically from multiple
curves.
Let them evolve with a function of G and
basically we see that it attaches itself
to the boundaries.
So look at the number five starts only
from these two counters.
And it evolves to detect.
This red line is detecting the numbers.
And we see this in here, basically.
We start from a bunch of contours, and
they evolve, and they get integrated to
find the boundaries.
We went from the image to a G function.
From it, we did the curve evolution using
level sets, and we get these solutions.
You can basically observe a number of
different things here.
And get, you know, as I said before, this
is level sets you can play very freely
with the initial conditions.
So this is one example.
And active counters have been extended to
surfaces, so they're called active
surfaces or minimal surfaces.
And here we see examples from grey matter
segmentation in MRI.
So it's used a lot as we're going to
discuss during the last week of this
class.
It's used a lot in medical imaging.
This is one example in 3D, this is
another example in 3D of finding very,
very tubular type of structures.
All these different examples use
different G functions that are basically
adapted to the problem.
We talk about one over the gradient,
sometimes we have much more information
about the type of images that we are
using and then the art is in the
designing of that G function that will
help the counter or the surface to get
basically attracted to the correct
boundaries to the correct regions.
So by this we are ending Week six.
This has been a week where we learned a
lot of mathematical concepts in order to
be able to do things like active contours
and isotropic diffusion.
And there are many more applications of
partial differential equations in image
and video processing.
I just illustrated a few.
And I gave you some of the underlying
theory.
It, it was as I say probably the most
mathematical-oriented.
Week in this class, certainly these six
weeks.
But it's also going to be the most
mathematical.
Basically BC week of the whole class.
We're going to use PVs, also next week
when we talk about image inpainting as in
our example.
But as I say, every week is self
contained, so when you come to next week,
of course you're going to, you are
already an expert in this area, so its
going to be easier for you.
But I'm going to just talk about those
equations, the ones that we use.
Next week and next week is not going to
be as mathematical as this week.
It's just going to use those PD's and it,
there going to be very intuitive to
understand.
Imaging painting is a lot of fun and it
has a lot of relationship with biology
and we are going to talk about that next
week.
Thank you, I hope you had fun.
I know it was a hard week with a lot of
math, but that's very useful math.
So I'm very happy I was, I had the chance
to teach you about it.
Thank you.
See you next week.